# How to Do Things with Video Games Response
<p>This reading was talking about games that, instead of putting you in the shoes of someone that is a hero or is powerful in some way, puts you in the place of someone who is weak and fighting to survive. This goes against what I view as the traditional idea of video games, which is to be fun and create a world that you want to place yourself into. By putting you in a place where you feel almost helpless, it fights against that traditional narrative. It also can bring about a more impactful story, since these types of game generally come from a more political or real world position.</p>
<p>This idea shows a different path that video games can take, instead of just being purely for entertainment, they can bring light to issues going on in the world around us. One of the games talked about is <i>Darfur Is Dying</i>, which is about the state of war in Darfur, which is not something that most people would think about, or even know about on a widespread level that would be able to be reached by a video game. This piece also brings up the idea that creating games with messages like these about real world situations brings awareness to players that may be fortunate enough to intervene.</p>
<p>A similar effect to this can be found in other forms of media, like film and television documentaries that are made with the purpose of bringing awareness of situations to those that would otherwise be ignorant to them. These types of films and television series make a point to make the viewer uncomfortable in order to get their message across, and hope for some type of change to be brought about by it. </p>
